README.md, before:

# Campus360

[![Android CI](https://github.com/bth-dipt-pa1469/h25-team21-campus360/actions/workflows/android.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bth-dipt-pa1469/h25-team21-campus360/actions/workflows/android.yml)

## Introduction
Campus360 is an Android app that helps students and visitors navigate the university campus. It provides indoor floor maps, searchable rooms and points of interest, category browsing, and turn-by-turn visual guidance powered by an A* routing engine over a bidirectional graph.

TODO: Add one or more screenshots of the app, when you finalized the UI.  - To be upadated in future

## Architecture Overview

![Architecture](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8932ea39-3464-4ca6-b601-f77ac09c419c)



## User Stories

| **#** | **As a <type of user>** | **I want/need to <perform a task>**                                | **so that <achieve some goal>**                  | **Acceptance Criteria** |
| ----- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| US1   | As a user,              | I want to search for a lecture room by name or number,             | so that I can arrive on time without confusion.  | Search returns matching rooms; selecting a result opens details; empty/error states are shown. |
| US2   | As a user,              | I want to filter locations based on their type,                    | so that I have an overview of all meeting rooms. | Category list is browsable; selecting a category shows results; tapping an item opens details. |
| US3   | As a user,              | I want visual navigation instructions for a location,              | so that I know in which direction I have to go.  | A* route is computed; map displays a path; step-by-step guidance is visible during navigation. |
| US4   | As a user,              | I want to explore points of interest like the library or cafeteria | so that I can experience campus life.            | POIs are discoverable via search and categories; details show info and an option to start routing. |
| US5   | As a user,              | I want to choose my start location manually,                       | so that I can plan a route from any point.       | A start-location picker is available; chosen start is used to compute and render the route. |
| US6   | As a user,              | I want destination details before I start navigating,              | so that I can confirm I selected the right place.| Details screen shows name, type, description, and actions like “Show on Map” and “Route”. |
| US7   | As a user,              | I want an SOS button that shows the nearest exit,                  | so that I can evacuate safely and get help.      | SOS action is always accessible on home screen; after confirmation, the app highlights the nearest exit and renders a route from my current/selected start|
| US8   | As a user,              | I want clear feedback if no route is available,                    | so that I can adjust my plan.                    | If no path exists, a friendly message is shown and map/steps do not display an invalid route. |


### Development Status

Track the development status of the app.

Use
[ ] for not implemented
[x] for implemented.

[x] US1

[x] US2

[x] US3

[x] US4

[x] US5

[ ] US6

[ ] US7

[ ] US8

## How to Use
  To be upadated in future
### Build

Using Gradle (from project root):
./gradlew clean assembleDebug
The APK is generated under `app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk`.

### Test

./gradlew test --rerun-tasks

### Run

Android Studio
- Open the project in Android Studio.
- Select a device/emulator and click Run.
  
## License

  To be upadated in future [Choose a License](https://choosealicense.com).

Commit message:

Revise README to include UI screenshots and usage steps
Updated README with finalized UI screenshots and navigation features.

README.md, after:

# Campus360

[![Android CI](https://github.com/bth-dipt-pa1469/h25-team21-campus360/actions/workflows/android.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bth-dipt-pa1469/h25-team21-campus360/actions/workflows/android.yml)

## Introduction
Campus360 is an Android app that helps students and visitors navigate the university campus. It provides indoor floor maps, searchable rooms and points of interest, category browsing, and turn-by-turn visual guidance powered by an A* routing engine over a bidirectional graph.

Below are screenshots demonstrating the finalized user interface and core navigation features of Campus360.
![Splash Screen](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/e02b5962-2840-4f24-b77d-5d06cbf4aacb)

## Architecture Overview

![Architecture](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8932ea39-3464-4ca6-b601-f77ac09c419c)



## User Stories

| **#** | **As a <type of user>** | **I want/need to <perform a task>**                                | **so that <achieve some goal>**                  | **Acceptance Criteria** |
| ----- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| US1   | As a user,              | I want to search for a lecture room by name or number,             | so that I can arrive on time without confusion.  | Search returns matching rooms; selecting a result opens details; empty/error states are shown. |
| US2   | As a user,              | I want to filter locations based on their type,                    | so that I have an overview of all meeting rooms. | Category list is browsable; selecting a category shows results; tapping an item opens details. |
| US3   | As a user,              | I want visual navigation instructions for a location,              | so that I know in which direction I have to go.  | A* route is computed; map displays a path; step-by-step guidance is visible during navigation. |
| US4   | As a user,              | I want to explore points of interest like the library or cafeteria | so that I can experience campus life.            | POIs are discoverable via search and categories; details show info and an option to start routing. |
| US5   | As a user,              | I want to choose my start location manually,                       | so that I can plan a route from any point.       | A start-location picker is available; chosen start is used to compute and render the route. |
| US6   | As a user,              | I want destination details before I start navigating,              | so that I can confirm I selected the right place.| Details screen shows name, type, description, and actions like “Show on Map” and “Route”. |
| US7   | As a user,              | I want an SOS button that shows the nearest exit,                  | so that I can evacuate safely and get help.      | SOS action is always accessible on home screen; after confirmation, the app highlights the nearest exit and renders a route from my current/selected start|
| US8   | As a user,              | I want clear feedback if no route is available,                    | so that I can adjust my plan.                    | If no path exists, a friendly message is shown and map/steps do not display an invalid route. |


### Development Status

Track the development status of the app.

Use
[ ] for not implemented
[x] for implemented.

[x] US1

[x] US2

[x] US3

[x] US4

[x] US5

[x] US6

[x] US7

[x] US8

## How to Use

1. Open the app and select your start location.
2. Search for a room or browse categories.
3. View destination details and choose “Route”.
4. Follow the visual navigation path on the map.
5. Use the SOS button to find the nearest exit in emergencies.

### Build

Using Gradle (from project root):
./gradlew clean assembleDebug
The APK is generated under `app/build/outputs/apk/debug/app-debug.apk`.

### Test

./gradlew test --rerun-tasks

### Run

Android Studio
- Open the project in Android Studio.
- Select a device/emulator and click Run.
  
## License

  To be upadated in future [Choose a License](https://choosealicense.com).
